# FrostAlert
My senior engineering design project - a full platform connecting an ESP32 endpoint with temperature and humidity sensors to an iOS app through Google Firebase to provide home gardeners with a low cost, realtime frost warning system.

The full engineering design report, selected as an honors thesis at Union College, can be [viewed here.](https://digitalworks.union.edu/theses/2443/) The report contains an exhaustive list of citations for sources used in this project.

This README, along with the READMEs in the main subfolders, covers the basics of the system and some hints to get started if you'd like to set it up and modify it. The most important components are shown in the file hierarchy below:
```
FrostAlert
├── ESP32
│   ├── FrostAlertEndpointEthernet
│   └── FrostAlertEndpointWifi
├── Firebase
│   └── Functions
│       └── index.js
└── iOS
    └── FrostAlert
        ├── Podfile
        └── FrostAlert
            ├── Data Model
            └── Views
```
## Endpoint
The `ESP32` folder contains the code, written for an Adafruit Huzzah32 using the Arduino IDE, that powers the IoT endpoint. There are two subfolders for the Ethernet and WiFi versions of the code, respectively. Information about these versions and the related hardware can be found in the README inside the `ESP32` folder.

## Firebase
The `Firebase` folder contains some preliminary setup files generated by the Firebase node module, but the novel code for this project is located in `Functions/index.js`, which contains the code for a cloud function that handles user data stored in a Firestore database. You can push this code to your own Firebase project by following the documentation [here](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/get-started#deploy-functions-to-a-production-environment).

## iOS

The `iOS` folder contains the Xcode project for the FrostAlert iOS app. Note that for the code to compile, it is necessary to run `pod init` (assuming you have CocoaPods already installed) in the `FrostAlert` subfolder, as the pods used in this project are included in the .gitignore to reduce the size of the repository.

The functional code for the iOS app is stored in `iOS/FrostAlert/FrostAlert`, specifically the `Data Model` and `Views` subfolders. Other portions of the Xcode project, including the Tests and UITests, have not yet been implemented due to the limited time period the app was developer under and the fact that this was my first ever iOS app.

A last note on the iOS portion - in order to deploy the app for testing on your phone, you will need an Apple developer account and will need to provision certificates for deployment and push notifications. Xcode provides detailed error messages that can guide you through this process, and the Firebase documentation provides instructions on linking your Google Cloud project to your APNS certificate.
